[Music]
hi I'm here to talk about congestion
namely road congestion road congestion
is a pervasive phenomena the existing
basically all of the cities all around
the world which is a little bit
surprising when you think about it I
mean think about how different cities
are actually I mean you have the typical
European cities with a dense urban core
good public transportation mostly not a
lot of Road capacity but then on the
other hand you have the American cities
it's moving by itself okay
anyway the Americans say this lots of
roads dispersed to the large areas
almost no public transportation and then
you have the emerging world cities with
a mixed variety of vehicles mixed
land-use patterns also rather dispersed
but often with a very dense urban core
and traffic plan is all around the world
I've tried lots of different measures
densities or dispersed status lots of
roads or lots of public transport or
lots of bike lanes or more information
or lots of different things but nothing
seems to work but all of these attempts
have one thing in common they're
basically attempts at figuring out what
people should do instead the rush-hour
car driving they're essentially two
point attempts at planning what other
people should do planning their life for
them
now planning complex social system is a
very hard thing to do and let me tell
you a story back in 1989 when the Berlin
Wall fell an urban planner in London got
a phone call from a colleague in Moscow
saying basically hi this is Vladimir I'd
like to know who's in charge of London's
bread supply and the urban planners
London was what do you mean who's in
charge your lands I mean no one is in
charge oh but surely someone must be in
charge I mean it's a very complicated
system someone must control all of this
no no no one is in charge I mean it base
our haven't through the fourth of it I
mean it basically organizes itself it
organizes itself that's an example of a
complex social system which has the
ability of self-organizing and this is a
very deep insight when you try to solve
really complex social problems the right
thing to do is most of the time to
create
incentives you don't plan the details
and people will fight you figure out how
what to do how to adapt to this new
framework and let's now look at this how
to weaken we can use this insight to
combat road congestion
this is metalstock of my hometown now
Stockholm is a medium-sized city roughly
2 million people but Giacomo's has lots
of water and lots of water means lots of
bridges narrow bridges old bridges which
means lots of road congestion these red
dots show the most congested parts which
other bridges that lead into the inner
city and then come with someone came up
with the idea that apart from good
public transport really import the part
from spending money on roads let's try
to charge drivers 1 or 2 euros at these
bottlenecks now one or two euros that
isn't really a lot of money I mean
compared to parking charges andronica
cetera so you would probably expect that
car drivers wouldn't really react to
this fairly small charge you would be
wrong
1 or 2 euros was enough to make 20
percent of course disappear from rush
hours now 20 percent well that's a
fairly huge figure you might think but
you still get 80 percent left of the
problem right because you still have 80%
of traffic now that's also wrong because
traffic happens to be a nonlinear
phenomenon meaning that once you reach
above a certain capacity threshold then
congestion starts to increase really
really rapidly but fortunately it also
works the other way around if you can
reduce traffic even somewhat then
congestion will go down much faster than
you might think
now congestion charges were introduced
in Stockholm in don-don't January 3rd
2006 and the first picture here is the
picture of Stockholm one of the typical
streets January 2nd the first day with
the congestion charges looked like this
this is what happens when you take away
20% of the cost from the streets you
really reduce congestion quite
substantially but well as I said I mean
car drivers adapt right so after a while
they would all come back because they
sort of get gotten used to the charges
wrong again
it's now six and a half years ago since
the congestion charge for introduced
calm and we basically have the same low
traffic levels stay
but you see there's an interesting gap
here in the time series in 2007 well the
thing is that the congestion charges
they were introduced first as a trial so
they were introduced in January and then
abolished again in a at the end of July
followed by a referendum and then they
were reintroduced again in 2007 which of
course was the wonderful scientific
opportunity I mean this was really it
was a really fun experiment to start
with and we actually got to do it twice
and personally I'd like to do this every
once a year or so but they wouldn't let
me do that so but it was fun anyway so
we followed we followed up what happened
this is the last day with the congestion
charges July 31st and you see the same
street but now it's summer in summer and
autumn is a very nice and light the time
of the year and the first day without
the congestion charges looked like this
all the cars were back again and you
even have to admire the car drivers they
adapt to extremely quickly the first day
they all came back and this effect and
this effect hanged on so two thousand
seven figures looked like this
now these traffic figures are really
exciting and a little bit surprising and
very useful to know but I would say that
the most surprising slide here I'm going
to show today it's not this one it's
this one
this shows public support for congestion
pricing a stockroom and you see that
when congestion pricing were introduced
in well the beginning of spring 2006
people were fiercely against it 70
percent of the population
didn't want this but what happened when
the congestion charge was there it's not
what you would expect that people hated
it more and more no on the contrary they
changed up to a point where we now have
70 percent support for keeping the
charges meaning that I mean let me
repeat that 70 percent of the population
in Stockholm want to keep the price for
something that used to be free okay so
why can't that be why is that well think
about it this way who changed I mean the
20% of the car drivers that disappeared
surely they must be discontent in a way
and where did they go
if we cannot just understand this then
maybe we can figure out how people can
be so happy with this well so we did
this huge interview survey with lots of
travel service and try to figure out who
changed and where did they go
and turned out that they don't know them
for some reason the car drivers are they
are confident they actually drive the
same way that they used to do and why is
that it's because that travel patterns
are much less stable than you might
think each day people make new decisions
and people change and the world changes
around them and each day all of these
decisions are sort of nudged ever so
slightly away from rush-hour car driving
in the way that people don't even notice
they don't even aware of this themselves
and the other question that who changed
their mind who changed their opinion and
why so we did another interview servant
tried to figure out why people change
their mind and who what what type of
group change their mind and after
analyzing the answers it turned out that
more than half of them believe that they
haven't changed their minds they're
actually confident that they have they
have like congestion pricing all along
which means that we are now in the
position where we have reduced traffic
across this tall cordon with 20% and
reduced congestion by enormous numbers
and people aren't even aware that they
have changed and if they honestly
believe that they have liked this all
along this is the power of nudges when
trying to solve complex social problems
and when you do that you shouldn't try
to tell people how to adapt you should
just nudge them in the right direction
and if you do it right people will
actually embrace the change and if you
do it right people will actually even
like it thank you
[Applause]
[Music]